> The final project report should be a 5-10 page paper, describing the introduction, related work, approach, results and conclusion. We will not accept reports longer than 10 pages. At the end of the report, you should also highlight the contributions of individual team members to the project. The project report should contain at least some amount of mathematical analysis, and some experimentation on real or synthetic data.
> I will use the following guidelines when grading your final project write-ups. Keep in mind however, that if there is a good reason why your project doesn't match the rubric below, we will take that into consideration when grading your report. For example, we recognize that purely theoretical or pure data analysis projects may not fit the rubric below perfectly, and that depending on your project you may want swap the ordering of certain sections. But hopefully all projects can be roughly mapped to the criteria below:


## Introduction
> Introduction/Motivation/Problem Definition (15%): What is it that you are trying to solve/achieve and why does it matter.

> Style and writing (10%): Overall writing, grammar, organization and neatness.


> Related Industry: online commercial/Business
> Data: http://snap.stanford.edu/data/amazon-meta.html
> The data was collected by crawling Amazon website and contains product metadata and review information about 548,552 different products (Books, music CDs, DVDs and VHS video tapes).
> Suggested Problem: Implement a co-purchasing data analytics engine. The analyzer has the following functions.
> 1. Answer complex query. We define a SQL-like query `Q` of the form `SELECT * FROM U WHERE Condition`. The `Conditiona` is of the following forms:
>     * Searchable attributes: value constraints over well-defined attributes in node/edge schema
>     * Non-searchable attributes: attributes that cannot be queried directly over existing attributes: the number of reviews of a product, the number of customers co- purchasing same product of a user.
>     * Queries with enriched operators: >, >=, =, <, <=; e.g., Select movie with average rating >=4.5
>     * Given a query `Q` and Amazon dataset, and a number `k`, find `k` entities that satisfy `Q` with minimized evaluation cost.
> 
> 2. Find potential customers that satisfies co-purchasing pattern. Divide the co-purchasing data into two data set, one we call “training” dataset, and the other “testing” dataset. Verify several frequent co-purchasing patterns in the training dataset. Report the frequency in the testing dataset. For those frequent patterns in both dataset, return the customers captured by the patterns. What seems to be the most significant co-purchasing pattern?

> Style and writing (10%): Overall writing, grammar, organization and neatness.

----

Amazon currently conducts, by far, the largest quantity of e-commerce within the US market [1](#01_ref_01).  The immense volume of purchse and browsing history data generated by customers presents a substantial opportunity for data mining to determine product stocking needs as well as gain insight into user behavior regarding purchased product combinations.  It is the latter of these subjects that we are aiming to expedite the investigation of.
As navigating graph databases remains a relatively domain-specific skill (in comparison to conventional tabular relational databases), providing a more rapid means of examining the relationships between products and users' purchasing behavior in this environment enables more users to understand the data they are making business decisions upon.  To further enhance the research process we focused our efforts on implementing search optimization and purchase pattern detection heuristics.


## Environment Configuration
* Neo4j Community Edition v5.2
* Python v3.10.6


## Data
### Data Description
Sourced from the Stanford Network Analysis Program (SNAP) [2](#01_ref_02), "the data was collected by crawling Amazon website and contains product metadata and review information about 548,552 different products (Books, music CDs, DVDs and VHS video tapes)" [3](#01_ref_03).

The network being examined has the following composition:
| Element                       | Value     |
|:------------------------------|----------:|
| Product Nodes                 |   548,552 |
| Product Node Attributes (8)   | 4,388,416 |
| Product-Product Edges*        | 1,231,439 |
| Review Nodes*                 | 7,593,244 |
| Product-Review Edges*         | 7,593,244 |
| Category Nodes**              |    46,215 |
| Product-Category Edges**      |    46,215 |
* _Notes_:
    1. Quantities differ from those initially stated in Milestone 01 and on the SNAP archive page as we have filtered out certain items where products are discontinued.
    2. Category nodes are currently utilizing the entire path, and experiments are being run on breaking out each element of the path to its own node which will impact the final counts for the number of Category nodes and relations to them.


### Data Format
| Field      | Description           |
|:-----------|:----------------------|
| Id         | Product id (number 0, ..., 548551) |
| ASIN       | Amazon Standard Identification Number |
| title      | Name/title of the product |
| group      | Product group (Book, DVD, Video or Music) |
| salesrank  | Amazon Salesrank |
| similar    | ASINs of co-purchased products (people who buy X also buy Y) |
| categories | Location in product category hierarchy to which the product belongs (separated by |, category id in []) |
| reviews    | Product review information: time, user id, rating, total number of votes on the review, total number of helpfulness votes (how many people found the review to be helpful) |


## References
<a name = "01_ref_01">[1]</a> https://www.statista.com/statistics/274255/market-share-of-the-leading-retailers-in-us-e-commerce/
<a name = "01_ref_02">[2]</a> https://snap.stanford.edu/index.html
<a name = "01_ref_03">[3]</a> https://snap.stanford.edu/data/amazon-meta.html